{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1347\cocoasubrtf570
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18700\viewh16860\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx6480\pardeftab720\li576\ri-36005

\f0\i\fs28 \cf0 Amplify
\i0  simulates DNA amplification by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). This software was designed primarily for researchers for planning PCR experiments. However, many educators have also found It is useful for teaching students about PCR.\
\
You supply the DNA sequences of one or more primers plus a length of target DNA sequence, and 
\i Amplify
\i0  will generate a map of the expected outcome. \
\
The amplification map shows you potential primer matches and amplified fragments. It finds these matches with an algorithm that measures two characteristics: (1) the stability of each match which emphasis the overall strength of the hydrogen bonds between primers and the target sequence, and (2) the propensity of the match to function as a PCR primer. The latter property places more emphasis on base matches near the 3\uc0\u8242  end.\
\
From within the amplification map you can click on any of the displayed elements to obtain more detailed information about them. In this way, 
\i Amplify
\i0  will provide helpful information such as the sequences of likely amplified fragments, warnings about potential primer dimers, etc. \
\
The specific algorithms used to locate primer matches and amplified fragments rely on several hundred parameters, all of which are user-settable in an extensive set of preference panes. The default settings are ones that have proved effective in many labs.\
\

\i Amplify
\i0  includes an extensive online manual and help system to explain how to use the software as well as the reasoning behind its algorithms.\
\
\
\
\
KEYWORDS\
\
DNA\
Polymerase chain reaction\
PCR\
Genetics\
Molecular biology\
}